Jenkins Plugin that
transforms [TestComplete](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TestComplete)
[MHT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MHTML) test reports from
[TestComplete](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TestComplete) version 11 and
grater into xUnit format so they can be integrated with Jenkins' JUnit
features.

The  plugin [TestComplete xUnit
Plugin](http://localhost:8085/display/JENKINS/TestComplete+xUnit+Plugin) from [Unknown
User (fmiguelez)](http://localhost:8085/display/~fmiguelez) can still be
used with newer TestComplete/TestExecuter versions if the TC / TE
executable is called with the option \*/ExportLogToXMLAlso\* included in
the command line. This plugin works without this option for TC / TE 11
and grater.

## How it works

It works like the [TestComplete xUnit
Plugin](http://localhost:8085/display/JENKINS/TestComplete+xUnit+Plugin)
from [Unknown User
(fmiguelez)](http://localhost:8085/display/~fmiguelez). 

As a reminder here the content again.

It has been developed as a [xUnit
Plugin](http://localhost:8085/display/JENKINS/xUnit+Plugin) extension.
To use it select the build step "Process xUnit test result report" or
"Publish xUnit test result report" post-build action. In either case
click on "Add" button and select "TestComplete-11.x-12.x" from drop down
list.

\<TODO add job configuration\>

In the "TestComplete-11x-12.x Pattern" text box introduce the location
of the [MHT](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MHTML) report files as
generated by TestComplete/TestExecute.

Some considerations:

-   Tests in TestComplete can be organized in a tree of test items.
    JUnit reports (xUnit) however can only be organized in two levels
    (testsuites and testcases contained within). TestComplete's keyword
    and script tests are then mapped to test cases and test suite is
    mapped as top-level test item containing keyword or script tests at
    any level.
-   For each resulting test case the classname is obtained as the name
    of the second-level ancestor test item (if any) containing the
    original keyworkd or script test. 

To illustrate these considerations consider following example
TestComplete report that belongs to a test suite that contains two top
TestComplete projects.

\<TODO add test log from IE\>

This is the resulting xUnit report. The xUnit test suite name matches
TestComplete's TestSuite name ("TestProjectSuite"). Test cases are named
after keyword tests (e.g. "KT3") and script tests (e.g. "Unit\\ST3").
The class names correspond to the names of the TestComplete projects in
suite (second level test items in report).

\<TODO Add picture jenkins\>

This plugin has been successfully tested on Windows.

## Change Log

##### Version 1.1 (16 September, 2017)

-   First version.

 

 

 

 

 

 
